A property is a house, held as its own record, separate from any deal about it.
That separation is deliberate. One house can pass through several deals across its life. We acquire it, we sell it on owner finance, the buyer refinances two years later.
If the property only existed inside the first deal, its history would end when that deal closed. Kept separately, the address accumulates everything that ever happened to it.
Inside a property you get its photos, its numbers, its status, and the deals attached to it.
When you create one, the first thing you pick is the category. It is not a label.
It changes which money fields the form even shows you, because the numbers that matter are genuinely different depending on what we are doing with the house.
A wholesale flip and an owner finance sale have almost nothing in common financially. Asking for the same fields would force you to leave half of them blank and guess at the rest.
For wholesale and multifamily, the form asks for four figures. Acquisition price, what we are paying. Rehab budget, what it needs spending on it.
A R V, the after repair value, what it is worth once the work is done. And the price to the buyer, what we are selling it on for.
From those four the system works out the spread and what the deal looks like to an investor. Because they are calculated, they are only as good as what you enter.
Note that acquisition price is walled off. What we paid is not shown to everyone in the company. That is a decision, not an accident.
Residential owner finance asks instead for sales price, down payment, monthly payment, interest rate, and taxes and insurance, and shows the real monthly cost live as you type.
Commercial and on market ask for a sales price and a note, and nothing else. If you are being asked for a rehab budget on an on market listing, the category is wrong.
That is the most reliable diagnostic in this form. If the fields look wrong, change the category at the top and the form rebuilds itself around the right numbers.